docs: update readme and how to customize the plugin (#66)
eduNEXT/tutor-contrib-edunext-distro: README.md

# Distro plugin for [Tutor](https://docs.tutor.overhang.io)

This plugin is a tool to facilitate the customization of an Open edX instance, adding commands and settings to have an easy-to-use
and a ready-to-deploy in a local or development environment.

## Installation

To install the latest release, run:

```bash
pip install git+https://github.com/eduNEXT/tutor-contrib-edunext-distro
```

You can install a specific version by adding the tag at the end, e.g, `@v17.0.0`

## Usage

1. **Enable the plugin**: after installing the plugin, enable it by running:

```bash
tutor plugins enable distro
```

2. **Configure the Distro plugin**: this plugin adds a new set of settings used to further customize your Open edX installation. Refer to the following documentation to know the Distro variables:

- [How to customize distro](./docs/how_to_customize_distro.rst)
- [How to add a new package](./docs/how_to_add_new_packages.rst)

> > [!NOTE]

Reviewer: This is cool! We should use it in all the repos.

Author: Unfortunately, it's only supported for markdown not rst.

# Distro plugin for [Tutor](https://docs.tutor.overhang.io)

> This plugin is a tool to facilitate the customization of an Open edX instance, adding commands and settings to have an easy-to-use

Reviewer: Here's a re-wording suggestion, but it needs to be reviewed cause I'm not sure whether I missed something:

This plugin facilitates customizing Open edX by adding commands and settings to make your instance easy to use and deploy locally or in development environments.

## Usage

1. After installing the plugin run:

```bash
tutor plugins enable distro
```

2. Configure Distro. The plugin manages a set of settings that you can add, refer to the following documentation to know the Distro variables:

- [How to customize distro](./docs/how_to_customize_distro.rst)
- [How to add a new package](./docs/how_to_add_new_packages.rst)

> :warning: Remember that from version 15, Distro plugin has no default values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:warning: From version 15, this plugin has no default values.
```
+1 to Brayan's suggestion.

3. Once you add the configuration, you can access the next commands (use it depending on your use case, more info below).

```bash
# Validate the Distro settings are properly set
tutor distro syntax-validator
# Validate the repositories for packages are valid
tutor distro repository-validator

> # Enable the theme(s) defined

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Enable themes
```

Reviewer: Can we add a short description of what this would do?

Reviewer: Or is that somewhere else? Can we link where the info is?

tutor distro enable-themes

> # Enable the package(s) defined

Reviewer: Same comment here about the short description.

tutor distro enable-private-packages

> # Run Tutor commands

Reviewer: Same comment here about the short description.

tutor distro run-extra-commands
```

4. Build the custom docker image running `tutor images build openedx` or `tutor images build openedx-dev`.

5. Launch your customized instance `tutor local launch` or `tutor dev launch`.

**Notes:**

> - If you want to use a custom edx-platform, you will need to create a branch based on the release, you can see the compatibility table below for reference:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to use a custom edx-platform branch alongside the plugin, your branch must be compatible with the plugin's release. Please see the following table for details on compatibility.
```

| openedx | tutor |
| ------- | ----- |
| lilac   | v12   |
| maple   | v13   |
| nutmeg  | v14   |
| olive   | v15   |
| palm    | v16   |
| quince  | v17   |

> - Define the docker images to be used and build it before starting the instance to avoid issues.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Specify the docker images for your installation and build them before starting before starting the instance to avoid issues with missing images.
```

Reviewer: I wonder if this happens without manually building the image before launching

```
**Notes:**

Also, you need an edx-platform version distro compatible.
- If you want to use a custom edx-platform, you will need to create a branch based on the release, you can see the compatibility table below for reference:

| openedx | distro   | tutor |
| ------- | -------- | ----- |
| lilac   | limonero | v12   |
| maple   | mango    | v13   |
| nutmeg  | nuez     | v14   |
| olive   | olmo     | v15   |
| palm    | palma    | v16   |
| quince  | quince   | v17   |
| openedx | tutor |
| ------- | ----- |
| lilac   | v12   |
| maple   | v13   |
| nutmeg  | v14   |
| olive   | v15   |
| palm    | v16   |
| quince  | v17   |

:warning: **NOTE**: From Olmo version Distro has not defaulted packages. Now it is necessary to add the packages you want in the ``config.yml`` file. See [How to add a new package](./docs/how_to_add_new_packages.rst)
- Define the docker images to be used and build it before starting the instance to avoid issues.

You can find those releases on https://github.com/edunext/edunext-platform
Example:

```yaml
EDX_PLATFORM_REPOSITORY: "https://github.com/eduNEXT/edunext-platform.git"

> EDX_PLATFORM_VERSION: "ednx-release/quince.master"

Author: Worth it? we are not adding any special feature over the upstream branch, besides, each user can use their own fork. 

I think removing these lines (or the explanation linked with it) makes clear that this is a build tool, even though the "how to customize" has all the variable definitions and examples.

> ### Private package

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Private packages
```

>   openedx-assets themes --theme-dirs THEME_DIRS --themes THEME_NAMES

Author: The definition specified that should be inside the container but this is an easy way to understand it.
